THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

FIRELORD

PUBLISHER
Hewson

AUTHOR

YEAR
1986

CATEGORY
Arcade adventure

DESCRIPTION
A walking collect-the-objects type game.

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston, Cursor.

 KEYS : Left    - O
        Right   - P
        Up      - Q
        Down    - A
        Fire    - M

INSTRUCTIONS
Deep in the once-beautiful land of Torot, Sir Galaheart is
setting out on a perilous quest - to seek out the sacred
Firestone and return it to the Dragon's safekeeping. However, the
Firestone is in the hands of the Evil Queen, who had seized it
and used its power to curse the land with fire and ghostly
apparitions who now drift the streets in ghastly imitation of the
once-happy inhabitants. At one time the people had roamed freely
but now they cower in their homes. Her price for the release of
the Stone is for some brave warrior to win for her the four
charms of eternal youth...

As well as the ghosts which Sir Galaheart must dispel there are
a host of characters for him to meet and trade with:

 1. Peasants know the villages and forests well although they may
be slow-witted.
 2. The Gatekeepers at their Toll Houses can arrange travel, for
a fee.
 3. Herbalists can also help with travel if you buy a Timescape
spell from them.
 4. The Witches and Wizards have spells available for you to buy.
(The Dragon's teeth may be of use).
 5. Knights can sell you weapons for you to use against the
ghosts
 6. The Wise Old Man is a useful source of information, as are
the Hermits, rumoured to live in the forests.
 7. The Bishops tend to be quick and greedy so it pay not to try
and cheat them!
 8. The Reeves administer justice and may be helpful if treated
with respect.
 9. Princess Eleanor is held captive by the Evil Queen and may
look kindly on those who are trying to help her.

At the top of the screen you will see your status bar. From left
to right, this shows your score, your lives left, your energy
left (the heart), your weapons left (the stars) and your
bartering
energy left (the cross).

When you enter a house you may trade with the occupant.  Place
the cursor over an icon and press fire to select it. To cancel
a selection press fire a second time. The ribbons at the edge of
the screen distinguish, by their colour, similar characters -
Green Witch, Red Witch etc. The icons on the screen are divided
into several groups.  On the left are Galaheart's current
objects. In the centre left of the screen are the types of
service available:

 1. Scales               - trade an object.
 2. Signpost             - find out where you are.
 3. Timescape (star)     - cast a spell to a magic place
 4. Portcullis           - pay a toll to pass through the house
 5. Supplies (head)      - buy food, weapons or trading tokens
 6. Information          - find out how to accomplish your quest 

Each occupant provides one or more types of service. Select the
type you require and between one and four of your objects which
you are prepared to trade in exchange. If your payment is
sufficient the occupant will make an offer by displaying a
suitable icon on the centre right of the screen. If you wish to
complete the deal select the icon displayed.

SCORES RECEIVED
Crash "If arcade adventures are your scene, then get a load of
this!" 91% (CRASH #35, December 1986)
